> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=51&selection=29,30,69,6&color=note|Mindstorms, p.51]]
> > The critic is afraid that children will adopt the computer as model and eventually com.e to "think mechanically" themselves. Following the opposite tack, I have invented ways to take educational advantage of the opportunities to master the art of deliberately thinking like a computer, according, for example, to the stereotype of a computer program that proceeds in a step-by-step, literal, mechanical fashion . There are situations where this style of thinking is appropriate and useful. Some children's difficulties in learning formal subjects such as grammar or mathematics derive from their inability to see the point of such a style.

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=51&selection=77,0,141,50&color=note|Mindstorms, p.51]]
> > By deliberately learning to imitate mechanical thinking, the learner becomes able to articulate what mechanical thinking is and what it .is not. The exercise can lead to greater confidence about the ability to choose a cognitive style that suits the problem. Analysis of "mechanical thinking" and how it is different from other kinds and practice with problem analysis can result in a new degree of intellectual sophistication. By providing a very concrete, down-to-earth model of a particular style of thinking, work with the computer can make it easier to understand that there is such a thing as a "style of thinking." And giving children the opportunity to choose one style or another provides an opportunity to develop the skill necessary to choose between styles. Thus instead of inducing mechanical thinking, contact with computers could turn out to be the best conceivable antidote to it. And for me what is most important in this is that through these experiences these children would be serving their apprenticeships as epistemologists, that is to say learning to think articulately about thinking.

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=52&selection=74,1,144,1&color=note|Mindstorms, p.52]]
> >  see two kinds of counterarguments to my arguments against the critics. The first kind challenges my belief that it is a good thing for children to be epistemologists. Many people will argue that overly analytic, verbalized thinking is counterproductive even if it is deliberately chosen. The second kind of objection challenges my suggestion that computers are likely to lead to more reflective self-conscious thinking. Many people will argue that work with computers usually has the opposite effect. These two kinds of objections call for different kinds of analysis and cannot be discussed simultaneously. The first kind raises technical questions about the psychology of learning which will be discussed in chapters 4 and 6. The second kind of objection is most directly answered by saying that there is absolutely no inevitability that computers will have the effects I hope to see.

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=52&selection=161,0,175,9&color=note|Mindstorms, p.52]]
> > But of course the physical presence of a computer is not enough to insure that such conversations will come about. Far from it. 

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=54&selection=91,0,156,11&color=note|Mindstorms, p.54]]
> > The first draft is composed at the keyboard. Corrections are made easily. The current copy is always neat and tidy. I have seen a child move from total rejection of writing to an intense involvement (accompanied by rapid improvement of quality) within a few weeks of beginning to write with a computer. Even more dramatic changes are seen when the child has physical handicaps that make writing by hand more than usually difficult or even impossible.

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=55&selection=16,20,31,27&color=note|Mindstorms, p.55]]
> >  I believe that the computer as writing instrument offers children an opportunity to become more like adults, indeed like advanced professionals, in their relationship to their intellectual products and to themselves. In doing so, it comes into headon collision with the many aspects of school whose effect, if not whose intention, is to "infantilize" the child.

> [!PDF|note] [[Mindstorms.pdf#page=55&selection=32,0,47,4&color=note|Mindstorms, p.55]]
> > Word processors can make a child's experience of writing more like that of a real writer. But this can be undermined if the adults surrounding that child fail to appreciate what it is like to be a writer. 

