

> [!PDF|note] [[Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure.pdf#page=36&selection=30,0,37,47&color=note|Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure, p.413]]
> > First, future research would do well to examine the productive failure hypothesis using other definitions and forms of structure on the learning and performance space of learners. For example, research could keep the level of structure in the problems the same while varying the structure in the problem-solving process through the provision of process scaffolds, argumentation tools, representational tools, and so on. Carrying out a comparative study similar to the one reported herein but with a different form of structuring of the learning and performance space forms a natural and immediate extension. 

> [!PDF|note] [[Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure.pdf#page=36&selection=42,0,47,6&color=note|Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure, p.413]]  [[Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure.pdf#page=37&selection=5,0,24,38&color=note|Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure, p.414]]
> > Second, what also needs immediate analysis is the variation within the IS groups. Although, on average, IS groups exhibited productive failure, it was also clear that some failed more than others in the shorter term inasmuch as some gained more than others in the longer term. What explains this variation within IS groups? For example, preliminary analysis suggests individual, behavioral characteristics (as manifested in the interactions) of persistence, tenacity, inventiveness, and persuasiveness to be critical. Indeed, as reviewers insightfully pointed out, examining productive failure from cognitive aspects alone is not sufficient; learners’ frustration thresholds and level of engagement in solving the problem, for example, may be particularly critical as well; low frustration thresholds and engagement levels may not result in productive failure. 

> [!PDF|note] [[Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure.pdf#page=37&selection=30,0,38,14&color=note|Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure, p.414]]
> > Finally, such micro-genetic interactional analysis also has the potential of feeding into computational models of collective behavior (Epstein & Axtell, 1996; Goldstone, 2006). This study demonstrated how conceptualizing group behavior (e.g., interactional sequences, convergence in group discussion) as an emergent property of the local interactions among group members provides insight into collaborative processes and outcomes. A way forward is to further leverage the theory of and methods from complex systems science to provide additional insights into the interactional dynamics of collaboration (Jacobson & Wilensky, 2006; Goldstone, 2006). 

> [!PDF|note] [[Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure.pdf#page=37&selection=40,25,50,56&color=note|Kapur - 2008 - Productive Failure, p.414]]
> >  Iterating back and forth between in-situ and in-silico experiments (Epstein & Axtell, 1996; Goldstone & Janssen, 2005) may potentially further our understandings of the collective dynamics of problem solving to a level that may not be possible otherwise (Kapur et al., 2007).
